Add documentation on how to write a RecordBuilder (#739)
piwik/developer-documentation: docs/5.x/writing-a-record-builder.md

They define two methods: `aggregate()` which builds the actual `DataTable` & numeric records to insert into archive tables,
and `getRecordMetadata()` which returns information about what records the `RecordBuilder` builds.

`aggregate()` will generally aggregate data from log tables to create records, but it does not have to. An example of a use case
without aggregation would be importing analytics data from another service.

`getRecordMetadata()` is used when aggregating records for non-day periods. In this case, Matomo will find the record values
for the subperiods of the non-day period and aggregate them together.

If your plugin needs to insert data into the archive tables during archiving, then you'll want to create your own `RecordBuilder` classes.
This guide describes how to do that.

## How to create one

### Step one: identify the list of records and log aggregation queries you want to bundle together

Log aggregation queries are expensive (especially with segmentation) and Matomo wants to be able to run as few of them
as possible at a time. A `RecordBuilder` is meant to encapsulate the smallest amount of archiving logic possible, allowing Matomo

> can run just what it needs to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to run just what it needs to.
```

Many times this will either be running a single log aggregation query to generate a single `DataTable` or running a single
log aggregation query to generate multiple numeric metrics. Sometimes it will mean running multiple log aggregation queries
to generate a single `DataTable` or running multiple log aggregation queries to generate multiple `DataTable`s and multiple metrics.

It is up to you as a developer to find the balance between efficiency (executing the fewest log aggregation queries overall)

> and modularity (having `RecordBuilders` that individually do as little as possible).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and modularity (having `RecordBuilder`s that individually do as little as possible).
```

on `Record` instances in your `getRecordMetadata()` method.

### Step five: if your RecordBuilder is parameterized, implement the relevant event

If your `RecordBuilder` is not parameterized then there's nothing else to do. You're done and Matomo will detect and use it.

If it is parameterized, then there's still one thing left to do. Matomo will not be able to automatically create a `RecordBuilder`
that takes parameters, so it must be added manually in the `Archiver.addRecordBuilders` event like so:

```
class MyPlugin
{
    public function registerEvents()
    {
        $hooks = [
            'Archiver.addRecordBuilders' => 'addRecordBuilders',
        ];
        return $hooks;
    }

    public function addRecordBuilders(array &$recordBuilders): void
    {
        $idSite = \Piwik\Request::fromRequest()->getIntegerParameter('idSite', 0);
        if (!$idSite) {
            return;
        }

        $entities = StaticContainer::get(MyEntityDao::class)->getAllEntitiesForSite($idSite);
        foreach ($entities as $entity) {
            $recordBuilders[] = new MyRecordBuilder($entity);
        }
    }

> }

Reviewer 2: @diosmosis Should we also mention about `buildForNonDayPeriod` here, so that its easy for others to edit when required?

Author: I can try and add something when i have time

Author: added a quick section

---
category: Develop
---

<div markdown="1" class="alert alert-warning">
**This API is unstable.**

The RecordBuilder API will eventually be public and the only way to define archiving logic, but for now the API is unstable
and subject to change. Please be aware it could potentially change between minor version releases.

> </div>

Reviewer: Is this still unstable or is this now the default and we can remove this warning?

Author: that is up to the core team. feel free to change it yourself when your team decides the answer to that.

to build and execute log aggregation SQL queries, and use those classes in your `RecordBuilders`.

An example of this might look like:

```
public function aggregate(ArchiveProcessor $archiveProcessor): array
{
    $logAggregator = $archiveProcessor->getLogAggregator();
    
    $report = new DataTable();
    
    $query = $logAggregator->queryVisitsByDimension(['label' => 'config_browser_name']);
    while ($row = $query->fetch()) {
        $columns = [
            Metrics::INDEX_NB_UNIQ_VISITORS => $row[Metrics::INDEX_NB_UNIQ_VISITORS],
            Metrics::INDEX_NB_VISITS => $row[Metrics::INDEX_NB_VISITS],
            Metrics::INDEX_NB_ACTIONS => $row[Metrics::INDEX_NB_ACTIONS],
            Metrics::INDEX_NB_USERS => $row[Metrics::INDEX_NB_USERS],
            Metrics::INDEX_MAX_ACTIONS => $row[Metrics::INDEX_MAX_ACTIONS],
            Metrics::INDEX_SUM_VISIT_LENGTH => $row[Metrics::INDEX_SUM_VISIT_LENGTH],
            Metrics::INDEX_BOUNCE_COUNT => $row[Metrics::INDEX_BOUNCE_COUNT],
            Metrics::INDEX_NB_VISITS_CONVERTED => $row[Metrics::INDEX_NB_VISITS_CONVERTED],
        ];

        $report->sumRowWithLabel($row['label'] ?? '', $columns);
    }

    return [

>         'MyPlugin_myRecord' => $report,

Reviewer: As we return `Record::make(Record::TYPE_NUMERIC, 'MyPlugin_myMetric'),` from the `getRecordMetadata` example above, should we also, for consistency, have it here with some sample metric value?

Reviewer: thanks!

{
    public function __construct()
    {
        parent::__construct();
        $this->maxRowsInTable = (int)Config::getInstance()->MyPlugin['datatable_archiving_maximum_rows'];
        $this->maxRowsInSubtable = (int)Config::getInstance()->MyPlugin['datatable_archiving_maximum_rows_subtable'];

        // we want to sort by the most important metric in our reports before we cut off rows
        $this->columnToSortByBeforeTruncation = Metrics::INDEX_NB_VISITS;
    }
}
```

If you don't know what to use, you can set both values to `Config::getInstance()->General['datatable_archiving_maximum_rows_standard']`.

Also note we set `columnToSortByBeforeTruncation` to make sure the rows with the least visits are the ones that get removed.

Additionally, if your plugin provides metrics that should be aggregated together with an operation other than being `sum`-ed,
you will need to set the `$columnAggregationOps` property:

```
class MyRecordBuilder extends RecordBuilder
{
    public function __construct()
    {
        parent::__construct();
        
        // ...

        $this->columnAggregationOps = [
            'my_max_metric' => 'max',
            'my_min_metric' => 'min',

>             'my_other_metric' => function ($thisValue, $otherValue) {

Reviewer 2: This is missing `$thisRow` and `$otherRow` arguments

Author: :+1:
